links:: [Local library](zotero://select/library/items/QGZXAQS3), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/users/8940609/items/QGZXAQS3)
library-catalog:: 3
authors:: Leo Breiman
publication-title:: Statistical Science
short-title:: Statistical Modeling
url:: https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-16/issue-3/Statistical-Modeling--The-Two-Cultures-with-comments-and-a/10.1214/ss/1009213726.full
original-title:: Statistical Modeling: The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author)
call-number:: 2.901
access-date:: 2022-03-20T11:43:05Z
item-type:: [[journalArticle]]
volume:: 16
pages:: 199-231
title:: @ Statistical Modeling: The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author)
doi:: 10.1214/ss/1009213726
extra:: Publisher: Institute of Mathematical Statistics
issue:: 3
issn:: "0883-4237, 2168-8745"
date:: 2001/08
tags:: /unread

- [[Abstract]]
	- There are two cultures in the use of statistical modeling to reach conclusions from data. One assumes that the data are generated by a given stochastic data model. The other uses algorithmic models and treats the data mechanism as unknown. The statistical community has been committed to the almost exclusive use of data models. This commitment has led to irrelevant theory, questionable conclusions, and has kept statisticians from working on a large range of interesting current problems. Algorithmic modeling, both in theory and practice, has developed rapidly in fields outside statistics. It can be used both on large complex data sets and as a more accurate and informative alternative to data modeling on smaller data sets. If our goal as a field is to use data to solve problems, then we need to move away from exclusive dependence on data models and adopt a more diverse set of tools.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Breiman_2001_Statistical Modeling - The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author).pdf](https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-16/issue-3/Statistical-Modeling--The-Two-Cultures-with-comments-and-a/10.1214/ss/1009213726.pdf) {{zotero-imported-file AE49CTAX, "Breiman_2001_Statistical Modeling - The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author).pdf"}}
	- [Snapshot](https://projecteuclid.org/journals/statistical-science/volume-16/issue-3/Statistical-Modeling--The-Two-Cultures-with-comments-and-a/10.1214/ss/1009213726.full) {{zotero-imported-file 9N4GFZ9U, "1009213726.html"}}